dsc499_meeting_weekA_03-31-2021

yes the meeting numbers are in hex now, too lazy to rename


for final presentation:
no real dress code, camera expected, the usual

approximate date for talk but it's basically just the last week of classes
maybe study week
idea is to get the maximum number of students/faculty available for capstone day
includes not just us but also grad student projects

last week of April, first week of May
will probably last like 5 hours
don't need to be there for all 5 hours, but expected to be there for at least 3

next wednesday: rough draft due!
goal is to get sections, bullet points, etc.
will provide mock grade
if you actually get a full grade from a full report, you're actually done!

for talks, plan for 15 minutes
the exact time window may be smaller
this window includes time for questions



NICK'S TOPIC TALK:
Three Aspects of Data Fundamentals

VOLUME, VELOCITY, VARIETY

data generated is goin up up up, changing constantly, and in various formats

analyzing is more challenging!
but it's always worth it

still more demand for solutions
data is easier to collect and cheaper to host than ever before

WHAT KIND OF DATA:
OLTP (transactional data)
OLAP (analytical data)

DATA PIPELINE:
generators
processors
consumers

DATA PROFESSIONALS:
Data engineers
DB admins
Data analysts/scientists


OLTP: transactional, high volume, millions of transactions per day
normalization helps speed throughput
lots of queries, joins, etc.

OLAP: analytical systems with denormalized data for easier insights
ingestion, transformation, querying, visualization

INGESTION: capture raw data, store data
TRANSFORMATION: data cleaning, aggregations
QUERYING: looking for trends, generate reports
VISUALIZATION: illustration

for Bri's project: 
  ingestion -> get images/dictionaries
  transformation -> clean image for OCR or transform dict
  querying -> comparisons of output accuracy
  visualization -> comparison of accuracy by method, heatmap, etc.

analysts: explore/analyze data to inform companies [querying, visualization]
engineers: cleaning, etc. [ingestion, transformation]
some third thing, oops

who: data professional
what: kind of data
how: data pipeline


	Scott: job market for these positions? starting salaries, position availability, etc.?
	Nick: good question, I dunno
	Scott: heard data engineering is robust, well-paying, but I dunno if that's true
	
	Bri: what's your favorite part?
	Nick: inputting, managing databases probably
	Scott: databases are always relevant


UPDATES!


BRIANNA:
doing the initial EDA, was splitting non-smokers from smokers
but smoking doesn't necessarily leave to lung cancer
will test a theory of cancer+nonsmoker:
train on cancer+smoker, test on cancer+nonsmoker

	Scott: could build two different models based on history and try both
	Brianna: basically trying to narrow down

basically trying to predict factors for lung cancer other than smoking

looking at:
- prob of getting cancer
- days to live

should probably split into two models

- if you do, would be interesting to see a plot of cancer p% vs. days to live

	MARCO: regression doesn't imply causation,
	if you just put one thing, that's always going to be a strong value
	put in a bunch of columns and do random forest or PCA
	SCOTT: not necessarily that we're predicting cause and effect
	if marital status ends up mattering, we'd use it even if it's not directly relevant
	if we're looking at the model, we'd look at probabilistic test
	Marnov-Smirnoff test, JS divergence (Jepsen Shannon?)
	quantitative model testing is the next step,
	but first step is just building model
	may not have time to explore all of it
	BRIANNA: yeah just doing what I can
	also starting the paper
	SCOTT: as far as quantifying the model, any sense of how to do that?
	BRIANNA: yeah, I'll play with it
	splitting into two different types seems good


JIMMY:
building tableau representation
graph of year by runs scored; series of counts basically

	BRI: if you find time, any way to have a 3D map?
	JIMMY: no idea yet but yeah that'd be cool

https://www.tableau.com/about/blog/2020/2/bring-your-data-life-viz-animations

https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/trendlines_add.htm

also starting to make a linear regression model

more R madness
boy I hate R


BRIAN:

showed off some stuff
Scott: haven't looked at github page, but readme instructions?
Brian: wanna assemble the full implementation in time for presentation
will be super sad if I can't have this ready but oh well

considering a notebook for example


MARCO:

had a dream of an idea! or late night idea, I forget
was busy writing my own thing, but it seems to be about redundancy and necessity
seems like CNN outdoes everything, so combining models seems pointless