DSC 499

Nick:
cleaning a big file
a very big file!
that's all

	Scott: any histograms or plots?
	Nick: still in the middle of cleaning up, so not yet, sorry


Michelle givin a talk!

- graduated last year, diploma sitting on a thing on a shelf because COVID
- COVID definitely made things... "interesting"


worked on linkedin, indeed, met with friends/recruiters
got a couple of offers but not in math/data fields
- these may be scant, maybe because of shift to remote

out of the blue, a recruiter saw my thing and scooped me up

IHS -> Dodd-Frank something
contracted by bank of Nova Scotia, check accounts that were being traded
to ensure that they were compliant with Wall Street regulations in US

hired pretty quickly since they needed someone quick
interview was short and sweet, basically "you know excel" and I'm like "yeah duh"

got the job but the project was a mess from the start
Scotiabank didn't know what they wanted
so they just dumped stuff on us
"sort this" "why" "dunno, just sort it"
went through giant excel sheets with 5 people
"does this one work" "does this one"
we all hated it

I was the only person on the team with a math background
or any kind of programming
instead of doing my portion, I'd tinker in excel
making scripts to help make pulling info easier
really annoying looking for the same info over and over again
never quite figured out macros but I figured out a simple chain of formulae
that managed to put everything into one table

that was neat and the team was great but the experience was hellish
management was not on our side; would've been nice but the bank didn't know what they had asked of us
made impossible demands that our bosses didn't push  back on sufficiently
if I raised concerns, I typically got shut down
so I started going around people like bank employees
management basically said "NO TALKING TO EMPLOYEES EVER"
trying to get IHS team seperate from Scotiabank team
we never reached out to them but they contacted us all the time	

	Scott: regulation purposes or what?
	Michelle: so we could "focus on our work" or nonsense
	"lawyers went over it and you all agreed" "yeah because we had no idea what we were getting into"
	redid everything

only lasted as long as I did because of the people I was with
when you're suffering together, you get through it!

ended up quitting after 5 months, was contracted for a year
totally not worth the mental agony 
being in a constant state of fight or flight for 8 hours before adrenaline crash

while in my job (where everyone told me to quit), I looked for other jobs
found something on... maybe Handshake? I can't remember
saw an application for PoC in STEM called hack.diversity
division of new england venture capital association
founder was like "Boston tech companies are innovative and super important"
"always looking for talent and diverse talent"
"we should bring smart kids of color into a group, then train them with specific skills"
for PoC in STEM in Boston area
don't necessarily need to be a PoC
	Scott: have to be in Boston?
	Michelle: normally yeah, but not right now obviously
scaled up massively: had 15 last year, 102 this year
LARGE group!
pick a track [I got a text and missed some stuff]
De-Hackathon! a thing
get an internship at host companies: there's 27  of them!
PITCH WEEK!
companies come in and tell us why we should work for them
- culture, interviews, what they do, etc.
- we apply at the end
always a ton of software engineers!
that's where most of the roles are
some data companies
I'm interested in pharma companies
they deal with a lot of data, looking for people to help with the analysis of data
companies:
	tango therapeutics (startup) - gene therapies for cancer
	vertex (very large) in boston
all of the companies are HQ'd or based in Boston
	hubspot
	vistaprint
	liberty mutual
	rapid 7
	pargaruze
	bagen gasdfjasdkf
	athena health
	(there's a lot)
lots of startups looking to recruit diverse talent
hack.diversity is giving us the talent and opportunities

	in pitch week?
	yup, right now we're getting pitches
	yesterday was a pretty good group, I only caught the first hour
	but they were all offering data roles too which was great!

what's interesting is the diversity of roles that fall into data analysis
rapid 7 is a cyber security: their analysis is different from what vertex does for example
like vertex is looking for people knowing Microsoft power BI or Oracle BI
and tango is looking for people with python skillz
the range of skills is very different!

salsify wants ruby or javascript or AWS skills
probably more
interesting spread of data analysis
very different from what I was doing

	scott: anyone asking for excel?
	Michelle: so far no, I don't know about next few days
	only two more days after today, half way through
	but it remains to be seen
	
for the most part, the resources they give us for learning and building
pluralsight: linkedin but specifically for tech
can make accounts but it's not free
most of the time they're partnered through a company (like how UMD is in linkedin)
they're hiring us knowing that we WON'T  have the skills, so they'll provide the way to learn as we go
AWS (teaching platform), costs money, might need an invite?
cloud computing is weird to me but it's an impressive skill
a lot of companies are really impressed with AWS skills since so much of it is done via cloud

	Scott: do any of our courses teach AWS?
	Michelle: not that I know of
	Bri: BDC had a thing on it a few weeks ago
	Michelle: I think you can do it through an institution so UMD could set something up

hack.diversity posts all the companies publicly
part of your application is you have to write a little "about me" thing
they post that on medium, yeah that was fun
they do have workshops and pod meetings every week to talk different topics
last week: how to beef up a linkedin profile
here's a thing about linkedin: you get a lot more profile views when you actually have a job!

crafting it perfectly and getting like 13 without a job
then getting 60 a week with a job now

https://www.hackdiversity.com/partners


job hunting SUCKS
	Scott: some people send like 10, 20, 30, rapid fire until they get something
	Michelle: I was working with three different recruiters from 3 different agencies
	they're helpful, they have inside leads and they get paid by their own companies
	but contract work can be sucky and tricky
	you're not a full-time employee, not given the same benefits
	keep that in mind if you go that route
	recruiters are definitely helpful in getting leads and directions
	but you don't necessarily have to follow through with what they provide
	you can turn them down and whatnot
	Scott: how'd you find your three?
	Michelle: one recommended by a friend
	other two found me on linkedin
	the IHS one cold messaged me with "saw your profile, you look like a good fit"
	Scott: so if you're on linked in, they'll find you
	Michelle: yup, helps to have a robust profile
	don't need to be active, but it's good to basically have a resume on there
	list all the things you've done
	even if it's not work, like academic experience
	while I was at UMD, I was doing research with Dr. Fisher in physics dept.
	that definitely helped me improve my python skills because of all the work and imaging stuffs
	so I'd say "this is where my python experience comes from"
	along with courses and what I've taken and blah blah blah
	Cachelle: another tip that one of my friends did:
	if you're applying for a job, you can email a recruiter
	still connected through the database
	also shows initiative saying you want the job
	also also should put things that inspire you
	like data science/analysis things you want to do
	gives the recruiter a summary of who you are, what you wanna do
	they can go through your profile and figure out what you wanna do
	keep your resume on there; if you're still in the university, put that on there
	diversity? I can't hear [hack.diversity]
	point is they care about collaboration, initiative, teamwork, etc.
	ability to create solutions even if you don't have em
	one of my classes kept mentioning this guy:
	he was on linkedin multiple times, he got a job and now he's a director for some agency, I forget
	Jules Ferendez?
	basically you have to be hungry and get the work
	I know I'm blabbing on a lot but those are some basics
	Michelle: also post your school projects!
	if there's a project that you're working on that you're particularly proud of,
	throw that link up there!
	build a portfolio!
	take some initiative outside of assignments!
	last semester/year, we didn't come back after spring break
	some of the assignments we didn't have the time to come back to
	even after I finished classes, out of interest I checked a thing
	analyzing the DNA sequence of a virus, what mutations indicate its... maliciousness? malevolence? whatever
	that was just something I was working on by myself in my spare time when not crushing my soul looking for work
	haven't even finished it since I got a job and ran out of free time
	good way to practice R skill and something to talk about in an interview
	something I did for fun that also contributes to skill and initiative taking
	YEAH
	Scott: if you mention that you do R for fun in your spare time, you'll probably get hired!
	Michelle: something I haven't experienced in my career:
	technical aspects that hack offers
	tech interview
	for the data side, they'll give you a problem that they'll ask you to work through
	sometimes you won't be able to reasonably solve it in the time given
	what they want is to see your thought process of how to approach
	(DESIGN!)
	what's blocking you, what you need help with, how to get around
	granted I haven't experience a tech interview but based on the companies that have pitched to us,
	a tech interview is not so much an assignment so much as a "we wanna see how you think as an analyst/engineer/etc."
	
thanks for coming! dodd-frank seemed important but maybe not
lots of "why did we have to do this?" "because it's the law"
"WELL OTHER BANKS DIDN'T MAKE US DO THIS"
well it's a Canadian bank so
banks usually have more lawyers, bleah

gotta go! listen to your professor!
might randomly meet him at a rest stop in New Jersey [yes that happened]
also his wife is nice


BACK TO TALKS AND UPDATES

left off with Nick's update


MARCO'S TOPIC TALK!

LaTeX, Markdown, and Workflow
writing documents and how it relates to what you do

LaTeX: doc preparation system for HQ type-setting
like word but finer control
YES IT'S PRONOUNCED LAY-TECH, NOT LAY-TEX

adopted by Overleaf, check it out yo
can do math notation and languages
encoded as controllable language; usually a library for what you need
works in relation to coding when taken lightweight
lightweight can improve workflow! easier

can throw in stuff like THEOREM or REMARK
got a bunch of linked resources

can just make an account on Overleaf to try stuff

Markdown: another language used in IDEs like Jupyter
for R studio, you need to install TeX
I use TinyTex, you just install and go
can do other stuff

R-Markdown: .rmd file
it ENCAPSULATES things into blocks (chunks)
kinda like Jupyter notebook but as a single text file

$$\sum_{i=1}^{a}

	Scott: this is R markdown?
	Marco: yup, lets you write out your code
	you can be writing LaTeX while writing code
	typically people do their code and plop it in Word
	if you wanna do that, you can export it in Word too

the knitr thing puts it all together
put in "include=FALSE" to hide a chunk
do "echo = TRUE" to show the code
can actually connect it to Git and work simultaneously

if you have Git, you can use it from the directory
if you wanna use the link, you can use the URL

can open a file like anything else
can pull/push/etc. from here directly

	Scott: has R studio supported this for a long time?
	Marco: I dunno but at least 3 years
	I like it because it combines everything into one
	you can code and write at the same time
	if you wanna get a rough doc going, use R markdown and knit it
	if you wanna do something HQ, take it over to latex

[shows how to use it with GitHub, yes it works]

(I think that's it)
	any comments on markdown in Jupyter?
	(maybe!)
	Scott: so many versions of markdown, everyone has their own extensions
	it doesn't even formally recognize latex
	one thing that annoys me with bitbucket, they don't recognize latex
	Marco: yeah you can in R at least
	regarding Jupyter
	
colab.research.google.com/drive/ ?

google collab is like any other google thing (slides/doc)
basically a shared notebook for coding python

	Scott: a tangent I forgot

can knit this; haven't done it
I wasn't impressed honestly
can you use latex? don't know, haven't tried, don't think so

	Cachelle: problem with R markdown
	knitting cancels if you have an error with your code
	Marco: it tries to push it through
	if there's a real compile error, it stops
	Scott: you're saying the behavior changes?
	Cachelle: yeah
	Scott: could be some behavior thing with the script
	Marco: yeah I usually keep it in one spot so I dunno


DONE!


Regular Marco update:
oh hey it's the markdown page I just had

last time we talked NN neural networks
I moved on to CNN (convolutional neural networks)
same idea but now we use convolution
what's the advantage?

particularly nice for images; image processing technique
nice when you have very large images for example
like 224x224x3 for an RGB (150000-ish bytes)
does a good job with handling invariance
if the image is slightly changed, it's not lost

CONVOLUTION:
takes an eleemnt-wise multiplication 
can pad with zeros for shape

	Scott: looks like a 4x4 becomes a 2x2
	does the +29 mean anything significant?
	if you put the blue box in the upper-left,
	it straddles the edge
	blurring an image is an example of convolution

[I am so tired]

pooling: min/max, doesn't overlap domain

softmax:

e^(x_n)/SUM[i=1,n]e^(x_i)
[28x28] conv -> [26x26x8] maxpool -> [13x13x8] softmax -> 10

started coding it manually, will do it with tensorflow

	Scott: you mean you're gonna do the whole thing?
	Marco: YES
	Scott: got enough time for that?
	Marco: should be! I think so anyway
	Scott: once you're done, are you moving to Keras/TF?
	Marco: yeah
	Scott: best way to learn an algorithm is to code it up
	but 10% of time is coding, 90% debugging


CACHELLE:
ran into some errors with flask, currently debugging
research about info I might've missed
"rebugging!" we're all good at that though

checking back-end
talking to some comp sci majors about web building
see if there's anything I can do better on

	Scott: see what they're doing, right?
	Cachelle: yeah since a few are making websites/databases
	gonna talk to them to get more ideas
	Scott: is the code available? like on GitHub or anywhere? private possibly
	Cachelle: oooh not yet
	Scott: heads up: I wanna check out your code on your gits, can be private
	doesn't have to be finished or beautiful, I just need to find it


BRIANNA:
trying to find out who can sign the form for that one data access
	Scott: found it! Andrew Carver (Carburgh? something like that)
	Brianna: I reached out to Office of Undergrad Research
	they said they'd sign, I said great!
	and that was the last I heard from them
	they said something about "no students!"
	bein jerks basically
	I'll do the git thing too

found a study by Yale, liked it
had four factors for lung cancer in non-smokers
radon, air pollution, smoking, asbestos, something else?

another: verywell health
women are more likely to develope non-smoking lung cancer than men
live 56% longer than curent smokers
able to tolerate surgery better
adenocarcinoma is more common for non, squamous for smokers

statnews had a thing, 8% of lung patients from 1990 to 1995,
became 14.9% from 2011 to 2013
bigger in UK
supposedly because of geneticts but I can't access studies
guess that's it

basically just looking at other studies to see common results
gonna use that to see if datasets are true

	Cachelle: I can't remember but
	based off of areas of industry (factory, etc.)
	has there been a significant rate of lung cancer?
	Brianna: been able to find rates by state and county
	those were more dealing with air pollution
	but not about plants
	like I live in Plymouth and we gots a big nuclear plant
	problem is NIH limits it to just the state
	so it's kinda hard
	pretty hard to tell in a large state
	especially in Cali cause of wildfires
	Cachelle: just something I noticed based on inhalation
	Brianna: it's also why I've been looking at other countries
	particularly those with large factories
	also THIRD-HAND SMOKE
	lingering chemical residue from previous smokers
	like on walls and ceilings and flooring
	that can make people sick too
	Cachelle: what about insulation/asbestos?
	Brianna: lots of things to consider
	hoping to have the dataset by friday
	can work over spring break
	

JIMMY:
worked on putting datasets together
getting it ready for tableau
player salary by batting,
player salary by pitching

trying to figure out how to get column from one table into another
	sounds like he needs a join
	Brianna: had to do this in advanced stats with Donghui
	can you upload that into something
	Marco: can append if it's ordered the same
	Bri: try a join
	Brianna: can also slap it on in Excel
	Scott: could just map it? can iterate it even if you're lazy
	could get tableau in the mix too

part 2 is about Tableau, I missed it


BRI:
set up levenshtein matrix to compare similar words
- idea is to have low values for most terms to avoid improper assignment
- heat map looks promising, even better when splitting it up by word

first dictionary attempt:
substitutes each item with closest match from its respective dictionary
iterates over different thresholds for this image

RESULTS:
- any empty strings automatically failed; this is expected
- skill names came out perfectly!
- 3rd and 4th columns were perfect
- 8th and 9th rows were perfect
- no issues with detecting number but struggled with + and - symbols
- difficulty matching o-- and ooo, didn't test ---, oo- was 100%




HUNTER:
setting up R packages, it's a pain
pkg-config not found?
maybe need to install it

dev tools!
# install.packages("devtools")

homebrew? x-code? excode?
doin stuff through console or command line

