FINAL MEETING!


Shawn Manfredo: sports analytics, coach from UMD / Fitchburg state

baseball parameters
angles, speeds, flight, trajectory, etc.

once we get the data, how do we relay it to the players?
how can they use it to improve?

we spend 20k on some piece of equipment to measure everything and get all this data
RPMs on curveball, slider, pitcher stuff, etc.

BUT THEN WHAT?

comes in a .csv file that goes on forever

got 30-something players on a team, they're not gonna think anything of it

two students last year

one made software
enter in stuff and it'd create the graphic showing it

this is what's being used in private companies in pro baseball

lots of opportunities out there

anyone who saw Moneyball knows that was the beginning
those were performance numbers (walks, pitches taken, % of balls in play, etc.)
recently bigger focus on measurements
so we've got the traditional data for performance
and also measurements taken live in-game

those were things we talked about last year
considering budget at Div 3 level vs. Div 1 level vs. pro level, etc.
budget limitations

lots of people getting into careers just by posting stuff online
making a presence through social media

jobs that didn't exist previously are now posted jobs

see things like St. Louis Cardinals offering data analytics jobs
crazy trend over the last 4-5 years

other sports?
some used in other sports:
tennis: velocities off of serves, etc.
NFL: stat-cast type of stuff like speed, scrimmage acceleration, velocity on throw, angel,
hang-time on punt, etc.
some of these have been around forever, but now it's being done with radar
high-speed data capture, not just for replay but also for measurements

I don't follow other sports so I dunno about those industry-wise
but if you watch from 10 years ago to today, it's completely different

opportunities now exist that didn't before
someone has to calculate and illustrate!
not just for the fans but for the coaches and players and teams

I didn't know anything about this 5 years ago
had to self-teach just to navigate and figure it out
I'm younger than some of the guys out there, they typically outsource this
"how does this benefit me?"

Jimmy: would you say betting industries use this more?

Shawn: yeah, I mean I'm more in results
but systems that do predictive things like in gambling definitely use this
that stuff is really huge there given how much money is there
competition always inspires innovation!
lots of opportunities with those companies, private companies, etc.
not just betting but prognosticating
some state-by-state regulations
could also just be someone who wants to win for whatever reason

Jimmy: yeah I'm interested in working for DraftKings, etc.

Shawn: right, and that's also part of Vegas betting systems
like if a guy is being selected, their value is going up
so someone's trying to find out why Tom Brady is more valuable this week,
someone's coming up with that stuff

Scott: seems like the sports analytics industry is hitting all sorts of areas
not just the teams, but also betting, media, etc.
so for college-level, what kind of {something}

Shawn: hittrax, flightscope?, driveline, etc.
you can look up providers of latest technologies
those companies themselves are hiring
as are the users
trackman does software side of it too
flightscope sells you the equipment straight-up
other companies would jump in to handle those
interesting thing regarding people who've gone onto pro sports analytics:
most have gotten plucked off of twitter!
they just present the things that they're seeing
presenting charts and such, gaining followers
know a guy who got a job with the Tampa Bay Rays basically from Twitter
you see that with LinkedIn too kinda
it does work

Scott: one of the recent grads was saying that the community is super active
posting projects, blog posts
if there's an opening, they'll find you
Shawn: DriveLineBaseball.com
front end of figuring stuff out
does controversial stuff like weighted balls
some people say it causes injuries or harder throws
they went at it objectively and took notes
business took off, employees picked up by scouts
that all came from twitter/instagram, etc.
even if the job doesn't exist, they're creating them
Kyle Bodie (spelling)? got job with Cinc Reds
basically created a job around what he wanted to do
saw value from something

Scott: very different from what I imagined
Shawn: yeah sometimes you gotta sift through everything
lots of people are trying to break through
some of it is nonsense, graspin at straws

Scott: what about internships? Fitchburg State, sports teams?
Shawn: yup, especially bigger schoosl

graduate assistants (can get degree)
skewed towards the tech side of things?
wakeforest website: coaching staff
see people like JAmes madison doing thing
"director of data analytics" positions that didn't exist before
Div 3 schools don't have the same resources so probably less
different financial availability at something like UMD vs. Atlanta
can definitely search for grad schools for that
tried to do at UMD, success at Fitch:
current students (work study, team management, resume building)
had a guy last year: his job was just to run the flightscope
now it's on his resume: director of analytics at UMD
wasn't a real spot before, now it is!

Jimmy: important to get a grad degree? or is BS okay?
Shawn: tough to tell, one of the big debates in general
are there too many prereqs in the job field?
do you really need a MS for head coaching?
lots of schools list it as a requirement
tough to say
never hurts to be the most educated one in the pool
biggest fish!

Shawn: keep us in mind next year for talks!
Scott: next year will be in person, so probably needing a list of locals
make a collection of data



PRACTICE PRESENTATIONS!

we're gonna do 10+2 but we'll go and keep going
gonna have link to videos


12:15: Detecting Medical Errors in the Cancer Screening Process: An In-Depth Review of Lung Cancer Screening and At-Risk Qualifications. Brianna Johnson (DSC senior)
12:27: Predicting Disease in Leaves Using Machine Learning. Hunter Canning (DSC senior)
12:39: Cluster Analysis of COVID-19 Database in USA with Data Visualizations. Ziyu Xia (DSC senior)
12:51: Optical Character Recognition and Correction for Images of Digital Displays. Brian Cornet (DSC senior)
01:03: How Much Does Salary Factor into Performance in the MLB? Jimmy Mcrae (DSC senior)
01:15: An Introduction to Handwritten Digit Recognition Algorithms. Marco Sousa (DSC senior)
01:27: DataMatch: A website for matching datasets to machine learning algorithms. Cachelle Johnson-Lewis (DSC senior)
01:39: Shopping Behavior Analysis with Data Analytics Tools. Nicholas Cen (DSC senior)


Brianna
Hunter
Ziyu
Brian
Jimmy
Marco
Nick
[no Cachelle today]]


BRIANNA
trying to fit topic into 10 minutes, been practicing
consistent tempo and excellent diction
to improve time, will need to trim speaking notes

q's: what attributes would you conclude to be significant?
[typo on discussion slide: "True Positivte" in image]

Brianna: will try cutting down on first two slides
would rather spend more time on the actual results
Scott: speaking is very clear but also very fast
if you go 11-12 minutes, you're not gonna get shutoff
you'll eat into question time though
will be okayish
here's a trick: spend 30-40 seconds on the last slide
cut down the text so there's less stuff on there
bullet points don't have to be full sentences

"oh I see I'm running out of time, I'll just leave this slide up"
instead of a last slide that says "Questions" in big letters,
just slap "questions" into the last slide somewhere
also don't need references

Bri: conclusion?
Brianna: emphezyma, BMI over 25, bronchitis, fam history of lung cancer
education is consider which is interesting

Scott: could lead with the simpler model
could use it to describe what a doctor would do with this chart
then you can go to the more complicated model
that shows that it doesn't add much more accuracy but is much more complicated
gives people a chance to digest the easier one, then go advanced


HUNTER
lots of moving Zoom window out of the way
everyone should remember to consider positioning

illustrations of code or data segmenting?
image slides with text slides?

Zoom window thing:
Scott: nothing I can do on my end
but if you wanna do another dry run, just start your own zoom session
don't need anyone, just you is fine
can start screensharing, that should replicate the real deal
Brian: may vary depending on number of participants and shape/size
Scott: there's a window with peoples faces in it
click the skinny bar, that'll give you the smallest window
there's also zoom screenshare bar that's almost invisible but gets in the way
if you move it at the start of the talk and kinda forget it's there,
that should help
for participants, you can do things to hide/minimize

Marco: can you go back to batch size/epoch?
batch size of 8 doesn't mean 8 images per epoch
if you had 2000 rows, epoch of 2 means all images twice
batch size 8 means passes through 8, feed forward, update
doesn't mean you need a bunch of epochs to do each in 8
bunch of epochs 2000/8 -> 250 iterations
can do any number of epochs with batch size
batch size is how many images being passed through before being updated
not the number being used per epoch

Hunter: time?
Scott: 5 minutes
Hunter: more time on results as I add them
Scott: can describe the images more too
like the neural network wasn't really described
would say something like each pixel influences next layer
elements of layer 1 influences layer 2, etc.
ReLU function adds non-linearity to this
output layer is the prediction based on the five categories
could spend a good 30-60 seconds on explaining this
also explain why you picked Neural Network
also advertise for Marco covering image classification
also add in sample images to get an idea for what to look at

Hunter: how to improve accuracy?
Scott: try different parameters
try different attributes to look at as well
bonus office hours from 11-1, can meet then


ZIYU: (can go with Damon) 
yes, it's pronounced ZEE-you

whoa, some of this is already done! looks good
had some sort of technical issue at the beginning; notes?
Ziyu doesn't talk fast, so maybe trim out stuff like speaking about examples
let the slides talk

Scott: 12 minutes, but some delay at beginning

Bri: notes solution:
use two monitors or phone or something
maybe print them out?



BRIAN

presented quantum paper from ECE 621
idea was to focus on layout and design
some possible improvements possible

animations are good!
Marco liked it!

didn't practice beforehand, so a little bit confusing
in hindsight, I think I kinda rushed this presentation? I forget how I did presenting it last time
questions typically about quantum computing aspects not covered here, expected given how unusual it is


JIMMY

good idea to mention data cleaning, filtering, partitioning, joining

context for lower salaries in 2002-2004?


Scott: missed some stuff
pitchng visualization: can probably remove confidence bands
there's already a lot going on
also describing maybe two of the figures
can explain that wins is highly coorelated with strikeouts, etc.
fewer players hitting the ball means fewer chances for other team to score, obviously
in salary column, things like ERA don't have a high correlation

for dip in salaries: either find the reason or don't acknowledge it
if someone asks, say you looked into it and didn't find the answer
seems ike salary ~ RBI model shows two models

don't give the audience too much credit, it takes them a while to digest stuff
pick one figure and describe it

Brianna: is previous slide controlled for inflation?
Jimmy: nope!
Brianna: would be interesting to see how it looks with adjustment to see if it's constant
market crash in 2008 doesn't appear significant here
Scott: yeah 9/11 might explain 2003
if you're just looking for a quick figure for the audience to look at,
maybe median salary for US employee by year
see the typical growth 
more images!
animations are great
even if it's not describing data, it's good to have for context