dsc499_meeting_weekB_04-07-2021

(I'm like 8 minutes late)

apparently everyone thought the first paper draft was due on the 14th, so now it's just not due until then
neat
also drink water after eating popcorn


GUEST SPEAKER!
former UMD student, at WPI I think?
joining at 3:45



TOPICS TALK!

JIMMY: SPORTZ

not just "how to win", but also player safety stuff
field growing, starting salary about 60k, 93k national average

common languages:
R, Python
Java, Julia, Scala, C/C++, Clojure

recommended path:
earn degree (BS minimum)
call up universities and see if they've got jobs
after building experience/resume, approach pro teams

also can apply to:
product lines (Nike, etc.)
betting sites (Draft Kings, etc.)

From Scott Field to Everyone:  03:20 PM
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_DePodesta
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Holzhauer
From Marco Sousa to Everyone:  03:20 PM
That's some serious commitment
From Me to Everyone:  03:21 PM
https://www.nhl.com/penguins/news/katerina-wu-has-dream-job-as-penguins-data-scientist/c-322941668


also consider e-sports
stop hatin hockey


UPDATES

JIMMY: 
progress! like really lookin good
- starting to realize you basically don't need R
Python gotcha back

	From Cachelle Johnson-lewis to Everyone:  03:31 PM
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lc76P-C205o
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgArfzvuAlw


BRIANNA:
performing logit and regression tree stuff similar to CIS 490 methods
looks good, about 12 predictors
histogram is super skewed

	Bri: log scale the histogram?
	Brianna: yeah
	also each individual predictor isn't very strong
	Bri: wouldn't it be the case that someone would need to "stack" strong predictors to have a serious risk?
	Brianna: yeah
	
	Marco: look at SENS? (probably just saying look at ROC curve)
	Brianna: did that, it's right here: AUC ~ 0.665
	could I take a different sample?
	
	Scott: maybe equally weighted inputs? same-ish sample size from yes/no
	could also add weighting factors: a FN could be weighted more heavily than a FP, etc.
	build model with several samples to avoid bias
	could also set aside a sample just for testing purposes
	
	main idea:
	as long as we write down the assumptions on methodology and point out where we can improve, that's probably good enough


GUEST IS HERE!
Hannah Smith

Math/Psych major
graduated in 2018, went to grad school fair
was thinking DSC, MTH, PSY
met with someone at WPI for Learning Sciences program
was a perfect fit, matches MTH and PSY and teaching
got masters in 2020 last May
continuing in PhD program at WPI
super interesting to go from in-person to virtual but really good

Scott: DSC capstone program, lots of interest in DSC masters and related
thoughts and tips?

Hannah: my program is combo of CIS PSY and some DSC
more of a program than a major
situated in CIS PSY and DSC
has a friend who [got a text, missed this]

any questions about getting in, applying, classes, research

Cachelle: a few q's
research project currently?

showing screen!
affiliated with three research projects/groups
doing a ton of things!

#1: ASSISTments online platform: new.assistments.org
tutoring thing; students do homework, we get data
project I did was data from last year:
every problem/assignment BEFORE and AFTER covid shutdown
- this is open, anyone can use this!
HUGE files, one is 5.7GB

	Scott: subjects?
	Hannah: mostly math, roughly 3rd grade to high school

problems completed, mean correctness, problem type

surprisingly, students did better DURING the shutdown
weird
may have been because it was the end of the year, who knows

	Cachelle: any individual student data?
	Hannah: does have location variables, covers all of US
	not sure how accurate, but it's in there
	
tutoring studies as well

can design your own study as well!
example: spatial reasoning skills test against geometry problem

can design studies or look at the data that's there, whatever
it's great!


#2: Wearable Learning Cloud Platform   wearablelearning.org
design games to use in classrooms
teachers use it to teach! works!


#3: graspablemath.com
tool for matching problems with requirements
e.g. make an equation that equals 12 with three steps: 4+4+4
animated algebra thing: distributing 3(6-9x) + 5 to simplify


Brianna: how have you found managing the PhD program?
hours per week? funding?
Hannah: experienced a few things
started as masters student
typically not funded
but WPI did fund it
started as a TA, that's one way to get funding
typically work 20hrs/week as TA with 20hrs/week as student
started with lighter workload so it was a little different
went into RA position in second year, 20/20 hours for research/schoolwork
grad school is less about busy work and more about real work
the 20 hours never really sticks

I've always been great at time management
played sports, double major, few jobs at UMD, so it wasn't too hard
I like grad school since I can pick when I wanna work
if I wanna go grocery shopping on a tuesday, I can do that
but I might need to put in an hour of work on a saturday morning
I typically work sunday nights too

you don't have many classes
I've got one 3hr class a week, plus a bunch of asynch
so class time is lower, more time to manage yourself

	Scott: actually 20 hours a week?
	Hannah: depends on deadlines!
	generally more when urgent, other weeks slower

	Brian: any other programs at other universities?
	Hannah: yeah, it's a new program so other collabs are common
	UWisconsin Madison has some people in various departments
	UC Berkeley
	Carneghie Mellon
	can't remember, but there's a lot and a lot of people doing similar work
	
	Cachelle: connected with other programs?
	engineering, etc. when you were at UMD?
	Hannah: UMD was just undergrad, so I dunno
	you mean other activities?
	this major was new when I went here so I dunno
	I worked at tutoring center, helped make connections
	was an undergrad TA for calc classes
	not really sure I was in any classes, just active in the department
	making connections is super important in everything you do
	even in classes!
	emailed Scott just the other day just to hear from him!
	great to make lots of connections, easier at UMD since it's a smaller school
	I dunno, is that helpful?
	
	Scott: when applying to grad school, what'd you do to prepare?
	GREs, pros/cons, etc. before you made your decision?
	Hannah: applied to WPI and Boston College (measurement evaluations statistics program)
	got into both MS programs
	was looking for specific programs that combined math education and psych
	didn't want to leave MA, so that was a factor
	didn't study for GREs anyway, figured it was about natural intelligence
	maybe I should've but they're weighing them less nowadays anyway
	had to write statement of purpose, probably cheesy
	biggest thing is reaching out to people in grad school
	so I'd go meet people in person to reach out
	easier to do now in virtual
	helps that people love to talk about themselves (here I am!)
	can talk to people and find out if you're a good fit
	not just about finding out if you're a good fit for them, 
	but if they're a good fit for you too
	deciding factor was basically WPI offering to pay/fund me,
	Worcester is cheaper to live in than Boston,
	BC only partial pay/fund
	so basically just money, but I'm  happy with it
	also I think interdisciplinary programs are better than bein in a bubble
	DSC is already interdisciplinary, so it's naturally good
	meet new people, new opportunities, great all around
	
	Bri: any bad experiences/regrets?
	Hannah: no regrets but one bad experience
	one bad semester, courses were bad, teacher was leaving
	wanted to leave WPI after that and felt really bad
	was looking at Australia and basically melting down
	prof I was working with went to the same conference
	saw her at breakfast, went over to say hi, she got up and walked away
	advisor said you probably wouldn't be a great fit, maybe she wasn't friendly
	people are generally friendly, grad or undergrad
	but that woman wasn't
	general idea: if you think it's a red flag, it probably is
	you have to be happy: you're spending 2-6 years of your life there,
	it has to be a great fit

can email me if you've got more questions
great opportunity if you want to work with educational data this summer
get to earn money, stay in MA, it's nice

	Cachelle: have you looked at Boston area data?
	Hannah: nope, but you can! it's open, go for it




oops gotta go

Bri did stuff, it was great


