ECE 498
Donghui!
Wednesdays 3PM - 5PM
http://www.math.umassd.edu/~dyan/

See also:
https://sites.google.com/site/umassdmth499/
Check "Consulting" for some examples

Main idea of first semester is to select a topic and get started!
Second semester is about finishing project and giving a final presentation, also a final report.

Since it's a capstone project, it needs to be more substantial than the average course project (usually double the amount of work).

Day 1: examples of potential projects Donghui has supervised previously, suggestions on how to pick up a project
Next three weeks: no class session! Next class will be September 30th!

Make an appointment (maybe several) with Donghui to pick a topic.
By next month, we're expected to have a topic.

We'll present the rough idea of the projects in class:
- Why do it?
- Rough plan?
Probably two weeks of presenting? Maybe more or less depending on how much people want to talk about.

Then we'll be presenting our progress weekly.

Two options for presentation order:
- Donghui randomly generates order at the beginning of the semester
- Alphabetical order based on COIN
I voted 2! Apparently we're going with that. I'm second!


Previous example: extension of a course project with Donghui in DSC 101:
https://sites.google.com/site/umassddsc101/09-homework/lab-z0
- Searched on cars.com for "Used" "Ford Taurus" "Within 30 miles"	
- Gathered all of the data from the website
- User-interface! Need to be able to work with the data after collecting it!
Actual model varies. Can build an app so a user can use it!


Previous example: sports analytics! Analyzed data from last 10 years from basketball something (probably NBA)
Exploratory data analysis: playing around with the data, not so much modeling
Saw a trend in games (particularly high-level like NBA): percentage of 3-point shots (ratio of all shots?) increases over the course of a season
Looked at these values amongst players individually
With the increase of 3P shots, probability of winning affected by 3P success? I didn't get all of that
Strategic value of this data, think about it yo

Previous example: more sports! Soccer thing
- player's photo record
- built model predicting outcome (of a game? I missed it)
- created system so users could determine their own model (assigning weights)
Engages fans of the game! consider the value of data that people find INTERESTING rather than only focusing on scientifically useful
- relevant to the business aspect: league/team owners, advertisers


Previous example: natural science! tree ring analysis
- look at tree rings for age, use areas between rings to determine climate conditions at a given year


and also photo recognition of spiders
and also commuting patterns to determine regions in MA/RI
computational social science!
probably a whole lotta other stuff that was said before I tuned out


Last example! Corona data set
- see Donghui's site, check under UMassD COVID-19 on the sidebar for data from UMD and MA
- also http://www.math.umassd.edu/~dyan/covid19.html


well that's it for now!
be sure to make AT LEAST ONE Zoom appointment to talk to Donghui about a plan!
- appointments are specifically for classtime
- 6 hours are possible between both periods, 8 students! expect 45 minutes for both meetings
topic AND implementation! make as many appointments as needed!
15% each for both meetings!
30% for a report about the project [end of semester]


presentation: simple slides, like maybe 10 slides (40% of the grade!)
grading will be based on appointment and presentation
