dsc499_meeting_week6_02-24-21


process for lunch talkie:
declare that you wanna do that
any day that's free during lunch hour can be used!



Brianna topic talk:
Automation Anywhere (now a consultant with them!)
now a certified RPA [Robotic Process Automation] 
took over two weeks to get credentials after filling out form, so no demo for that

- can sign up for AA and make a bot!
- not free unless you're special like Brianna

shows how many task bots you've made and what your most used is
shows not only what it does but also errors (including where the errors are from)

story: company had table of people's info
they had to enter it into a form, that was tedious
made a bot that does that for em
can launch websites, record/capture, pull pictures/images

eventually writes all the collected data into an excel file
puts it into the form on the site, sends an email saying it's done

sometimes takes a minute to install to computer

example: takes a webpage of 5 people or so
copies their data
runs the task as if done by a human automatically

tech training school: teaches RPA
there's a thing to apply (lumaxia.com)

normally would have to write it all down and do it manually

can do replies in plain text or HMTL [Brianna does her in HMTL to make it look legit]
sends emails and probably replies to csv locally


Email: Connect
when entering, it DOES ask for username and password (since it goes in there)
have the ability to encrypt credentials [265 encryption; did she mean 256?]

if interested:
being an RPA developer, you make pretty good money!
also interesting; so many things you can automate
goofy stuff:
 guy and his brother would prank each other with bots
 rickrolling

www.automationanywhere.com/
make sure you do this on Windows; not good with Apple

automationanywhere unniversity to get credentials 
- can do Learn on Demand, free option

- different from "quiet" bots? 

	Cachelle: super interested!
	this bot can manage people's credentials, [something else]?
	Brianna: the company lets us see when someone uses the bot, [something about the company decides something]
	if I launch a website, you can see what's being extracted
	open website, copy table with mouse/KB
	then you tell the bot what to do by field
	
	Cachelle: you can get certification with the company, or can you just train to learn the bot?
	Brianna: it's a combo; different certifications available
	they walk you through videos, you gotta get a 70% or so to get a badge
	REAL certifications take 40-80 hours, more complicated questions, need higher grades, not super expensive
	[free for my company]
	Certified Advance Professional is what I've done
	Master is super long and has an interview, haven't done it  yet
	most badges are free, can access even if you're not with the company
	
	Cachelle: if you're trying to build a system, using lots of data from other people
	can it make a business system based off of that?
	like needing everyone's information at a certain time?
	Brianna: can definitely do that; we're working on different types of solutions
	biggest focus is healthcare right now
	also working with Mass. unemployment to process claims
	"what do you do day-to-day?"
	anything that doesn't require mental skills [tracks mouse movements, clicks]
	also has triggers like new email [scans subject line]
	if it has "RPA training course" it runs through the loop
	if you remember CIS280, we do a lot of that here!
	never thought I'd be doing it that much but we do it a lot here [someone tell Firas]
	
	Brian: stuff for "quiet" bots? not just UI stuff?
	Brianna: yup, they have IQ bot and some other projects to do stuff like that
	natural language processing, stuff like that
	JavaScript, Python scripts, etc.
	
	tries to be as user friendly as possible, especially for people without coding
	"this is what the human does, this is what we want our bot to do"
	
	Scott: how did you get this internship?
	Brianna: I applied for a bunch, got one on Zip Recruiter (technical projects)
	wasn't really DSC but it was interesting, they asked me to stay on full-time after
	
	Scott: masters? Brianna: yes
	Bri: pay?
	Brianna: startup so not much, but I get 5% of the company
	
	Scott: automating grading of homework would be neat!
	Brianna: I'm actually doing something like that!
	

Project updates!

Ziyu:
built site for the data for a temporal slider from Mar 2020 to present
seems like a heat map?
using HTML, CSS, JavaScript

	Scott: is there a data file?
	Ziyu: yup, has each day for each state; death vs. deathConfirmed
	death includes unreported or possible
	have a graph of the results but trying to get it into the program using the framework
	need to figure out how to display stuff meaningfully[? I missed this]

	Scott: may be worth asking other professors about seeing if they have any interest
	Ziyu: I'll be talking to Dr. Yan after this semester probably
	

Brianna:
after getting email; talked about bi-cancer stage, cause of death
made request for specific data set due to inclusion of personal data
approved but need to sign agreement to avoid misuse
need signed from someone of authority
prof. couldn't do it maybe? tried to contact Dean but no answer

	Scott: provost maybe? lemme think
	basically find the person most responsive to emails
	probably Ram
	
	
Hunter:
having trouble with R stuff,
can't install EBImage, BiocManager?

	Scott: https://uvastatlab.github.io/phdplus/installR.html


Nick:
Cachelle:
[missed both]


Bri:
I forget
- quick look at noise removal, no real progress
- got sick of rotations
- dictionary comparison method
-- idea is that some fonts are just completely unreadable, even to humans
-- 